## [LGDISP](https://nexus.hexagon.com/documentationcenter/bundle/MSC_Nastran_2022.4/page/Nastran_Combined_Book/qrg/parameters/TOC.LGDISP.xhtml)

LGDISP is a global parameter. For the case with multiple LGDISP definitions, Nastran will use the first definition for all the subcases and steps. Default =    -1

* \>= 0 = The differential stiffness for structural elements is computed for the linear elements and added to the differential stiffness of the nonlinear elements.
* 1 = All the nonlinear structural element types that have a large displacement capability in SOLs 106, 129, 153, 159 and SOL 400 (see Table 3-1, under “Geometric Nonlinear” in the MSC Nastran Reference Guide) will be assumed to have large displacement effects (updated element coordinates and follower forces). For simultaneous multi-physics coupling analysis defined through the SUBSTEP Case Control option in SOL 400, nonlinear heat transfer element types will be treated the same as LGDISP = -1 (i.e., original geometry for thermal stiffness, element fluxes and external loads).
* -1 = No large displacement effects will be considered.
* 2 = Follower force for structural elements effects will be ignored but large displacement effects will be considered. For simultaneous multi-physics coupling analysis defined through the SUBSTEP Case Control option in SOL 400, nonlinear heat transfer element types will be treated the same as LGDISP = -1 (i.e., original geometry for thermal stiffness, element fluxes and external loads).
* 11 = Nonlinear structural elements will be treated the same as LGDISP = 1 in all supporting solution sequences.For simultaneous multi-physics coupling analysis defined through the SUBSTEP Case Control option in SOL 400, nonlinear heat transfer element types will be based on the current updated geometry (updated element coordinates for the thermal stiffness, element fluxes and external loads).
* 12 = Nonlinear structural elements will be treated the same as LGDISP = 2 in all supporting solution sequences. For simultaneous multi-physics coupling analysis defined through the SUBSTEP Case Control option in SOL 400, nonlinear heat transfer element types will be based on updated current geometry (updated element coordinates for the thermal stiffness and element fluxes, original geometry for external loads).
