## [MSG10625](https://nexus.hexagon.com/documentationcenter/bundle/MSC_Nastran_2022.4/page/Nastran_Combined_Book/qrg/parameters/TOC.MSG10625.xhtml)

Default=0 

```text
┌───┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 0 │ USER FATAL MESSAGE 10625 will stop any frequency response run with frequency dependent elements, │
│   │ with the DMAP path PARAM, BUSHNM, YES (default) if multiple subcases with different Case Control │
│   │ FREQ=n are detected.                                                                             │
├───┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ 1 │ The run will be allowed to proceed.                                                              │
└───┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```
The frequency dependent path BUSHNM, NO path is only viable when the frequency dependences are specified on the PBUSHT, PELAST, PDAMPT, PAABSF.

When the frequency dependences include MATiF entries, only the path PARAM, BUSHNM, YES path is viable. This path is also viable only for new features such as extended GEij on MAT2 or MAT9 entries, or the use of PDISTB/PDISTBM entries. The frequency dependences provided by PBUSHT, PELAST, PDAMPT, PAABSF also work for this path. Also, since the required element level  Δ K,  Δ K4,  Δ B matrices required for frequency dependency are computed in a completely different manner between PARAM, BUSHNM, YES/NO paths, the GPFORCE calculation is only available in the new PARAM, BUSHNM, YES path.

When the path PARAM, BUSHNM, YES has any type of frequency dependency, several new solution techniques are turned on. These include, by default, the use of master frequencies and extended residual vector calculations. Also, via PARAM, NMNLFRQ, value, in modal frequency the eigenvalue analysis may be performed using material stiffness values other than the base values defined on the basic MATi entries.

Automatic Master frequencies, controlled via the Case Control MFREQ, are based on the presence of MAT1F, MAT2F, MAT8F, MAT9F, PBUSHT, PELAST, PDAMPT entries and their associated TABLEDi entries.

For each forcing frequency corresponding to a determined master frequency, MSC Nastran forms complete element stiffness, structural damping and viscous damping matrices based on material and property table lookup at that frequency.

For forcing frequencies between master frequencies, the fully assembled g or modal sized stiffness, structural damping, and viscous damping matrices are computed by interpolation.

When multiple subcases are present, and these subcases have different FREQ=n selection, MASTER frequencies, computed based on the first subcase, may not have good correlation with forcing frequencies in subsequent subcases. Thus,  USER FATAL MESSAGE 10625  will be issued by default.

